Now, our aim is to try to find a good pivot in order n time.
We want to do this in worst-case, order n time.
What we just saw as an algorithm which finds it in order n expected time.
Now, if we can successfully find a good pivot in order n time,
then the running time of our algorithm will satisfy the following relation.
T of n is at most T of three-fourths n, because it is a good pivot.
So the sub-problem will be of size at most three fourths the original size,
plus order n to find a good pivot,
and order n to partition a into the three sets.
Now, this recurrence solves to order n. So
the overall running time of our algorithm will be order n. Now,
we have a bit of slack in this recurrence.
In particular, recall that instead of having 0.75n over here,
we could have had 0.99n.
We just need some constant less than one.
What we're going to do is we're going to use
this extra slack as extra time to help us find a good pivot.
So now, we're going to spend instead of just order n time to find a good pivot,
we're going to spend order n time plus T of.2n.
So, we're going to design an algorithm with the following running time,
T of n is at most T of three-fourths n,
this is for the sub-problem,
once we find a good pivot,
plus T of n over five plus order n. This T of n over
five plus order n is going to be the time it's going to take us to find a good pivot.
Now, the key fact is that three quarters plus one fifth equals 0.95,
is strictly less than one.
So this recurrence solves to order n. So,
if we can find a good pivot in this amount of time,
T of n over five plus order n,
then we successfully have an order n time algorithm to find the median.
Now, what exactly are we going to utilize this T of
n over five in order to find a good pivot? How are we going to utilize it?
Well, we're going to choose a subset of A,
which is of size n over five.
Then, we're going to recursively run our median algorithm on
this subset S. We're going to set P, the pivot,
to be the median of this subset S. The time it's going to take us to find the median of
this subset S is going to be T of n over five since the subset S is of size n over five.
The question is, how do we choose this subset S?
We need to choose this subset S so that is
a good representative sample of this entire array A.